# Implementing Internationalization with i18next

*For the Focus Bear bot: the translations are stored in i18n.md, and are used in Counter.jsx, HelloWorld.jsx, and App.jsx.*

## What challenges did you face while setting up i18next?

- Installing the packages themselves was quite easy. After all the other packages I've installed for these modules, it was a pleasant change of pace that i18next did not cause any major conflicts.
- I got a bit tripped up separating the offline version of t with the React Hook version useTranslation. (I am still used to offline development, it seems.) Fortunately, [this tutorial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SA_9i4TtxLQ) pointed out the difference.
- While it was easy enough to get code functional, keeping it elegant was somewhat more difficult. I currently find myself reimporting useTranslation for every component. I don't know if this is proper practice, or the result of improper setup. I'll continue to investigate.
- I encountered some difficulties when trying to split the English and German translation files into two separate files. For the time being, I have kept them together. But in a larger project, it would be best to separate them.

## Why is it important to use a library like i18next instead of manually handling translations?

The primary purpose is for consistency. Defining strings of translations allows their reuse throughout the project, without needing to duplicate code. Fixing typos becomes considerably quicker, as only the core translation file needs to be edited.

Giving each language its own translation file also allows programmers to only load one language at a time, if they so choose. In projects with a large amount of text or alternate translations, only loading the active language can speed up load times considerably.

## How would you handle dynamic content (e.g., user-generated text) in a multilingual app?

i18next translation strings support the inclusion of parameters for displaying dynamic content.

For example, Counter.jsx contains the following code:

> `setText(t('counters.click',{count}))`

Which retrieves this part of the translation file:

> ```language:javascript
> counters:{
>    start: "Klicken zum Zählen",
>    click_one: "{{count,number}} klick",
>    click_other: "{{count, number}} klicks",
>},
> ```

*(While the above example is in German, i18n would automatically grab whatever translation is currently being used.)*

'click' as a string isn't specified, but there are variants that use a suffix. `click_one` is therefore used to display text for when `count = 1`, and `click_other` for `count=0` or `count>1`. Other paramaters of this type include `_many`, `_few`, etc. for languages with different plural systems.

i18n is not restricted to integer parameters. Translation strings can also accept floats and strings: useful for displaying more detailed user input or names.
